## Midterm1
## Author: Krissy McHugh
## Summary of program
# In my program, I coded a series of population increases for the 3 counties with the highest increase in the percentage of total population and the 3 with the lowest percentage increase, the 3 counties with the highest increase in the percentage of population over age 65 and the 3 with the lowest rate of increase, and the 3 counties with the highest increase in the percentage of population under age 20 and the 3 with the lowest rate of increase. I did this by creating variables for the initial population and the final population for the specified years and age groups, grouped by each county, and generating a data set of these values. After doing this I was able to merge the initial and final population data sets and calculate the percent changes, and then order the counties from highest to lowest percent increases, and vice versa.  I followed this process 3 times for the 3 different timelines/age groups.
## Summary of analyses based on program
# After analyzing the population growths for the counties in Ohio over various timelines and age groups, there are some common trends that I have come across. These analyses were based firstly on the percent change in the total population of each county from the year 2010 to 2019, then on the percent change in the population of those aged 65 and up for each county over the entire timeline of the data set (years 2008 to 2019), as well as the percent change in the population of those under the age of 20 for each county over the entire timeline of the data set. My first observation was that county 41 had the highest percentage increase in population for all three of these groups. This means that we can determine that county 41 is the county in Ohio where the most growth in population is seen. Most notably, in the age group 65 and up, there was a 79.1% increase in the population of those 65 and older. Based on this we can infer either that older adults in this county are living longer, or that more older adults have been moving to this county over time, or a combination of both. Furthermore, I also observed that county 159 had a significant increase in the percentage of population as well, as it was the third highest population increase for all three groups analyzed.  The most variety in percentage increases were among the lowest percentage increases of the population in the 3 groups, however there was still a trend of counties 111 and 81 existing in the top 3 for the three groups. We can see that there is a decrease in the population of those 20 and under in county 111 both for the entire population and in the under 20 population, which means we can infer the possibility of lower birth rates (especially in county 111), or a trend of people moving out of county 111 over time, or a combination of both. Similarly, county 81 had one of the lowest percentage increases both in the 65+ demographic as well as in the overall population. This could potentially mean a decrease in lifespan in this particular county, or that more people (especially those aged 65+), are moving away from this county. Furthermore, the only population group analyzed where the lowest percent increases in population were not negative numbers (i.e., there was always a growth in population for every county), was for the age 65 and up population. In the total population, the counties with the lowest population increases were negative, meaning the population has decreased. This was also seen for the 3 lowest population increases for the 20 and below population. This means that overall, every county in Ohio has seen some sort of increase in population for those 65 and up, while there have been decreases in the total population and the population of those 20 and under of certain counties. 
